In 3E 427, the Dark Brotherhood attempted to gain a foothold on the island of Vvardenfell, and allied themselves with the Dagonites, cultists of Mehrunes Dagon who provided shelter for them. Their leader in the province, Severa Magia - who had taken on herself the title of "Night Mother" - had taken up insufficiently-secret residence on the island, and was assassinated by a member of the Morag Tong.[10] Her successor in Morrowind, Dandras Vules, does not seem to have been associated with the Dagon cult, nor any other religious cult, but simply turned the Mournhold branch into assassins for hire: unfortunately, many of them met their match one by one (and later two by two) at the hands of the Nerevarine. Who later infiltrated and wiped out their hideout under Mournhold, only to discover that they were working at the time for none other than King Hlaalu Helseth - under a contract apparently signed "in perpetuity" between Helseth (who feared the Nerevarine as a potential rival) and the Night Mother (almost certainly Magia, before her demise). With typical effrontery, when learning of the death of Vules and most of the Brotherhood under Mournhold, and that the Nerevarine had never intended to challenge him anyway, Helseth immediately dismissed the hiring of the Brotherhood assassins as "a slight inconvenience" and "a regrettable occurrence" and attempted to hire the Nerevarine's services. The Brotherhood were not completely wiped out, though, and mounted an assassination attempt on Queen Barenziah... though, when this failed, evidence remained that the Nerevarine (who protected her on this occasion) was once again the true target. Whether Helseth was involved this time, or whether the Brotherhood were seeking private revenge against either him or the Nerevarine, is not clear.

In 3E 433 the Dark Brotherhood in Cyrodiil was betrayed from within. Mathieu Bellamont, a trusted Speaker, was secretly attempting to destroy the Brotherhood and the Night Mother as an act of revenge for the assassination of his mother.[11][12] A new member of the Brotherhood quickly rose in rank and became a Silencer of the Black Hand, purifying the Cheydinhal sanctuary and being deceived by the traitor into assassinating most fellow members of the Black Hand.[11] when the surviving members of the Dark Brotherhood in Cyrodiil went to consult the Night Mother. The traitor would finally be revealed, the Silencer would go about slaying the traitor before he destroy the Night Mother's remains and finish off the Dark Brotherhood. As a reward for dealing with the traitor, the Nightmother would name the Silencer, her new listener.[13]
Fourth Era
Listener Alisanne Dupre (Legends)

In 4E 188, the Dark Brotherhood would be infiltrated by a spy: the Forgotten Hero was hired by Listener Alisanne Dupre's father, Uther Nere, to infiltrate the Dark Brotherhood. He plotted the ultimate destruction of the Dark Brotherhood by killing the Listener, who he claimed slew his wife.[14] Uther would be given reports by the Hero regularly, and he got the information he needed to take down the Dark Brotherhood. After receiving enough information, he would gather an army of mercenaries to lay siege to the Night Mother's crypt within Bravil.[15]

Uther and his men would then carry out siege to the Night Mothers Crypt, hoping to ultimately destroy both the Night Mother and kill his daughter. Its unknown if the Forgotten Hero chose to side with the Dark Brotherhood in the end or stayed loyal to Uther. Either way, Alisanne Dupre died defending the Night Mothers corpse, she ended up being incinerated by her father and was slain.[16] During the battle, an assassin named Garnag was able to retrieve the Night Mothers corpse before it could be destroyed. He would then bring it to Cheydinhal, where Cicero would be given the task of safe-guarding the corpse as the Night Mother's Keeper. The surviving Black Hand re-instituted the ancient position, this was done in order to keep the Night Mother's deteriorating corpse intact, so that her spirit could remain in Tamriel and speak to a future Listener. [17]

With the Listener Alisanne Dupre dead and no new Listener chosen by the Night Mother, the Dark Brotherhood was forced to rely on word-of-mouth to gather new contracts. During that time the Night Mother still did not speak, demoralizing the surviving membership in Cheydinhal, and the Black Sacraments went unheard. Eventually Rasha, the leader of the Cheydinhal Sanctuary and only remaining member of the Black Hand, proclaimed that he was the Listener. However, when he failed to confirm the words that the Night Mother taught to all Listeners and confirmed by all Keepers, he was killed.[17]

By 4E 200, only the Falkreath Sanctuary of Skyrim remained active, so Cicero took the Night Mother there. It's unknown whether Cicero reached the Sanctuary before its destruction with the Night Mothers corpse. Some reports out of Skyrim claim the Brotherhood was wiped out. Conflicting reports assert that the Brotherhood not only survived, but Night Mother picked a new Listener who would then go about assassinating the reigning Emperor, Titus Mede II.[18]
Night Mother Ritual / Black Sacrament
An Imperial, performing the Black Sacrament (ESO)

For prospective clients to contact the Dark Brotherhood, they would carry out a ritual called the Night Mother Ritual or Black Sacrament. This ritual would inform the Night Mother of their intentions. When the Listener of the Black Hand prays to the Lucky Old Lady Statue in Bravil, the Night Mother will inform the Listener about the location of those prospective clients. The Listener would then relay this information to Speakers of the Black Hand.

As documented in the rare and taboo work "A Kiss, Sweet Mother," the Black Sacrament involves an effigy of the intended victim -- created from actual body parts, including a heart, skull, bones and flesh -- within a circle of candles. To proceed with the ritual, one must stab the effigy repeatedly with a dagger rubbed with the petals of a Nightshade plant, while whispering the plea, "Sweet Mother, sweet Mother, send your child unto me, for the sins of the unworthy must be baptized in blood and fear." As gruesome as this ritual may be, even more frightening is its intention -- the summoning of a mysterious assassin (who some witnesseses [sic] claim is always clad in a black hooded robe) who will then receive money to kill an innocent victim. No remorse. No regret. It is, as the merchant's say, simply business. And that's what worries Adamus Phillida. [19]
